Update SIG Docs release handbook (#1014)
kubernetes/sig-release: release-team/role-handbooks/docs/README.md

1. Add contacts to the shadows release docs, e.g: [https://bit.ly/k8s114-contacts](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BiGSLuCqjglQS1bJvpKk6rKFMciebPkUndzgDRnJsns/edit?ts=5c3bd42a#gid=0)

> #### Ensure access is set yp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Ensure access is set up
```

1. Make sure all shadows have edit access to the enhancement spreadsheet.

1. As a lead, make sure you are part of the [milestone-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/milestone-maintainers) and [sig-docs-en-owners](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-docs-en-owners).

1. You need push access to the Kubernetes website repo (contact a SIG Docs chair if you don't have it)

>    ⚠️ Open the [integration branch] by creating a pull request against `master` referencing the `dev-[future release]` branch. **This should be done by the Docs Lead**, e.g: the [Release 1.14](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/13174) PR uses the branch `dev-1.14`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ⚠️ (**This should be done by the Docs Lead**) Open the [integration branch] by creating a pull request against `master` referencing the `dev-[future release]` branch e.g., the [Release 1.14](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/13174) PR uses the branch `dev-1.14`.
```

   This release pull request (also known as the [integration branch]) serves as the base for individual, component enhancement PRs of the release. A [integration branch] lets you bundle and merge multiple PRs simultaneously.

   ⚠️ Add the label `do-not-merge/hold` to the PR.

1. First PR in `dev-[future release]`: Update config.toml to show `[future release]` as the current version and add the `[future release]` entry to the drop-down, e.g: [config.toml diff](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/commit/851ef58fa8413e47bb18a15de53d9556be8c53dd#diff-618063036395fe9ee107f22b46c9eade)

    The intent is that your new branch should be showing as the current version IN the new branch...

#### Update the website configuration ahead of the release

> Update the main `config.toml` based on the version in _master_, ready for the pending release. PR those changes it against `dev-[future release]` branch (which should already exist - this is a good check!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the main `config.toml` based on the version on the `master` branch. Open a PR for these changes against the `dev-[future release]` branch (which should already exist - this is a good check!)
```

```shell
# Step 1
# Do this on a fresh local clone OF YOUR FORK
# It's OK to use SSH for the git URL if you know how to do that
git clone https://github.com/yourGitHubUsername/website.git kubernetes-website
cd kubernetes-website

> # Step 2

Reviewer: Nit: add spaces between the commands and the comments. Same with below. :arrow_down:

# Add the upstream repo as a remote
git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
git checkout --track master
git checkout -b config-toml-1.14 # change for the release you're making
# Step 3
# Edit config.toml to make the changes described above
# save your changes
git add config.toml
git commit -m "Updated config.toml for 1.14 release"
# Step 4
# Check things look right
git status
git remote -v
# Step 5
# Push this new branch to your fork
git push origin config-toml-1.14
```

> Now create a pull request that targets the next release (here: _dev-1.14_) **not** _master_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now create a pull request that targets the next release (here: `dev-1.14`) **not** `master`.
```

    This allows us to avoid merge conflicts on release day with `dev-[future release]` and it allows us to easily sunset the current docs under it's new branch `release-[current release]` after we merge `dev-[future release]`.

    To merge `master` into `release-[current release]` on your local fork:
    ```bash
    # Step 0 (if you don't already have a remote called "upstream")
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
    # Step 1
    git fetch upstream
    # Step 2
    git checkout upstream/release-[current release]
    # Step 3
    git merge upstream/master

>     # Set the commit message to, eg,

Reviewer: Move this above (before the command).
`eg,` --> `e.g.,`

Author: Think this is outdated now.

>     # "Merged master into release-[current release] to keep in sync"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # "Merge master into release-[current release]"
```

1. Imperative mood for commit messages
2. Keeping things in sync is implied

Author: Updated

    # Step 4
    git checkout -b merged-master-release-[current release]
    # Step 5
    git push origin merged-master-release-[current release]
    ```

>     Submit a PR against upstream ```release-[current release]```  from your fork  ```merged-master-release-[current release]``` branch with label ```tide/merge-method-merge```. e.g [merge master into current release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16224)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Submit a PR against upstream `release-[current release]` from your fork `merged-master-release-[current release]` branch with label `tide/merge-method-merge`. e.g., [merge master into current release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16224)
```

Reviewer: @zacharysarah -- Any reason why merge isn't the default merge method for k/website? I lack context there.

Author: merge is now the default merge method for [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website)

>     <hr />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ---
```

Prefer markdown syntax over html tags

Author: Yep

    To merge `master` into `dev-[future release]` on your local fork:

    ```bash
    # Step 0 (if you don't already have a remote called "upstream")
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
    # Step 1
    git fetch upstream master
    # Step 2
    git checkout upstream/dev-[future release]
    # Step 3. You might see merge conflicts at this point.
    git merge upstream/master
    ## if needed: https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line/
    ## git add ...
    ## git merge --continue
    # Step 4
    git checkout -b merged-master-dev-[future release]
    # Step 5
    git push origin merged-master-dev-[future release]
    ```

    You may need to fix conflicts manually. If somebody has improved a page on master, and at the same time it has been updated in dev-1.14, we may need to figure out how to make those changes work together. If something comes up which isn't obvious, you can always abort the merge and reach out to SIG Docs for help.
    When you have completed resolving the differences manually, run `git merge --continue` to complete the merge. Then carry on from step 4.

>     Submit a PR against upstream ```dev-[future release]```  from your fork  ```merged-master-dev-[future release]``` branch with label ```tide/merge-method-rebase```. e.g [merge master into future release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16225)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Submit a PR against upstream `dev-[future release]` from your fork `merged-master-dev-[future release]` branch with label `tide/merge-method-rebase`. e.g., [merge master into future release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16225)
```

Reviewer: @zacharysarah -- Same here. Any reason to use the rebase merge method here?

---

@sftim -- the referenced PR uses the `merge` merge method, not `rebase`.

Author: No longer relevant

>     **Make sure that GitHub shows the PR with all-green commits**. If you see some conflicting commits after you have opened the PR, it is likely that something is wrong.

Reviewer: What's wrong? How do we fix it?

Author: Think that's now outdated.

This allows us to avoid merge conflicts on release day with `dev-[future release]`.

##### ⚠️  Periodically merge `master` into `dev-[future release]`.

To merge `master` into `dev-[future release]` on your local fork:

```bash
# Step 0 (if you don't already have a remote called "upstream")
git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
# Step 1
git fetch upstream master
# Step 2
git checkout --track upstream/dev-[future release]
# Step 3
git pull --ff-only # make sure you're up to date
# Step 4. You might see merge conflicts at this point.
git merge upstream/master
## if needed: https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line/
## git add ...
## git merge --continue
# Step 5
git checkout -b merged-master-dev-[future release]
# Step 6
git commit -m "Merge master into dev-[future release] to keep in sync"
# Step 6
git push origin merged-master-dev-[future release]
```

> Submit a PR against upstream `dev-[future release]` from your fork's branch `merged-master-dev-[future release]`. e.g. [merge master into future release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16225).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit a PR against upstream `dev-[future release]` from your fork's branch `merged-master-dev-[future release]`. e.g., [merge master into future release](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/16225).
```

> You may need to fix conflicts manually. If somebody has improved a page on _master_, and at the same time it has been updated in the dev branch for the next release, we may need to figure out how to make those changes work together. If something comes up which isn't obvious, you can always abort the merge and reach out to SIG Docs for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to fix conflicts manually. If somebody has improved a page on `master`, and at the same time it has been updated in the dev branch for the next release, we may need to figure out how to make those changes work together. If something comes up which isn't obvious, you can always abort the merge and reach out to SIG Docs for help.
```

When you have completed resolving the differences manually, run `git merge --continue` to complete the merge. Then carry on from step 5.

> ⚠️  **Make sure that GitHub shows the PR passing tests**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚠️  **Ensure the PR is passing tests on GitHub**.
```

#### Monitor PRs

> Make a query showing all PRs raised against dev-[future release] and monitor that regularly, e.g: [1.14 search](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+base%3Adev-1.14+label%3Alanguage%2Fen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a query showing all PRs raised against dev-[future release] and monitor that regularly e.g., [1.14 search](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+base%3Adev-1.14+label%3Alanguage%2Fen)
```

#### Enforce deadlines

> Enforce deadlines. Communicate with SIGs via Slack and email lists to keep up to date on status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforce deadlines. Communicate with SIGs via Slack and email lists to keep everyone up-to-date on status.
```

/approve
```

(you might already have /lgtm from the technical review stage; another /lgtm is fine if the prerequisites are already met).

If you need help reviewing PRs, ask SIG Docs (#sig-docs channel on Slack) for help. The weekly [PR Wrangler](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/wiki/PR-Wranglers) is your best resource.

> Note: PR's against the dev branch can merged at any time assuming they meet the criteria. Be careful though that you don't merge a feature that might be pushed out to the next release. If that happens, you can revert - but it's better to avoid the mess all together.
>
> You can add /hold to mark a PR that should not merge until the matching code changes are already in.

#### Nominate a Docs Lead for the Next Release

⚠️ During Code Freeze, pick a successor who has demonstrated the ability and understanding of the process.

**Usually this is a Docs Lead Shadow that has beenon the team for 2 releases with a desire to continue with the SIG Docs.**

- Reach out to the person you have in mind and confirm they are able to commit the time and effort for a successful release.

> - Once confirmed, inform the Release Team and the SIG-Docs Team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once confirmed, inform the Release Team and the SIG Docs Team.
```

#### Generate the reference documentation

Update the generated documentation using a Python script ([Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/kubernetes-components/)). Before running the script, modify `reference.yml` to checkout the Kubernetes future release branch.

![Update kubernetes release branch](pics/reference-yaml.png)

The first step is to famialiarize yourself with the `website/updated-imported-docs/update-imported-docs.py` script
and the instructions for ([Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/quickstart/)).

The reference documentation build depends upon a valid release tag.
When a Kubernetes release candidate version tag such as `v1.19-rc.2` is created, you can consider building
the reference documentation. Next:

> - Create a branch for this work based off of the dev-\<release_num\> branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a branch for this work based off of the dev-[future branch].
```

> #### Update minor verison in api index page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Update minor version on API index page
```

> #### Update minor verisons in api

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Update minor versions in API
```

Update the `<MINOR_VERSION>` in `content/en/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/api-index.md` for the future release.

   ![Update API index](pics/update-api-index.png)

#### Touch base with SIG Cluster Lifecycle (kubeadm)

Validate that SIG Cluster Lifecycle has all of the docs in place for the upcoming release. These are mainly kubeadm docs (upgrading, installing, changes, etc). If unsure, send a message to their [Slack](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-cluster-lifecycle/) channel.

> ##### Update 4 past config.toml's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Update the `config.toml`s for the past four releases
```

Create the updated `config.toml` files for the 4 previous releases. These need to be 4 separate PRs because each release has its own `release-` branch.

See this for example (1.13 was the "future release"):
* 1.9 https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/11493
* 1.10 https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/11495
* 1.11 https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/11496
* 1.12 https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/11497

⚠️  DO NOT MERGE **ANY** OF THE `config.toml` PULL REQUESTS FOR PREVIOUS UNTIL THE RELEASE IS CONFIRMED

##### Deprecate links

> - Deprecate the oldest API link in the reference docs, e.g: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/13467

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deprecate the oldest API link in the reference docs e.g., https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/13467
```

> - Update the index for the API reference docs, e.g: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/14139

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the index for the API reference docs e.g., https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/14139
```

- From [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) click on `master` branch.
- Type the name of the release branch.

> - **click** Create branch _release-x.xx_ from master

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **click** Create branch `release-x.yy` from `master`
```

![](pics/new-branch.png)

> Note: if the release branch is created before the website is frozen you may need to merge in master to keep up-to-date

To merge `master` into `release-[current release]` on your local fork:

```shell
# Step 0 (if you don't already have a remote called "upstream")
git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
# Step 1
git fetch upstream master
# Step 2
git checkout --track upstream/release-[current release]
# Step 3
git merge upstream/master
# Step 4
git checkout -b merged-master-release-[current release]
# Step 5
git commit -m "Merge master into release-[current release] to keep in sync"
# Step 6
git push origin merged-master-release-[current release]
```

> Now create a pull request to merge the new branch you've made into the _release-[current-release]_ branch on [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now create a pull request to merge the new branch you've made into the `release-[current-release]` branch on [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website).
```

#### Update Netlify

> Update the Netlify configuration. (A SIG Docs [chair](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs#leadership) or tech lead can assist you with access):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Netlify configuration. (A [SIG Docs Chair or Technical Lead](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#leadership) can assist you with access):
```

#### Freeze Kubernetes website

> 24 hours before the release, freeze the repo: ⚠️  no PRs allowed to merge AT ALL until the release PR has successfully merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
24 hours before the release, freeze the repo: ⚠️  no PRs should be allowed to merge AT ALL until the release PR has successfully merged.
```

- Submit an issue with `tide/merge-blocker` label.

> - Submit a freeze announcement following our [protocol](#communicate-major-deadlines)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Submit a freeze announcement following our [protocols](#communicate-major-deadlines)
```

### Release Day

⚠️  Everything in this section is important. It's OK to ask for advice if you're not sure.
---

This process takes approximately 4 hours.

> Coordinate with the Release team for the exact timing. Typically the release is 'officially' built, then you merge the docs, and then you approve the blog post to "make it official." For 1.14 we merged docs at 2:30 EST and the blog was approved at 3 EST - marking the release "complete".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coordinate with the Release Team for the exact timing. Typically the release is 'officially' built, then you merge the docs, and then you approve the blog post to "make it official". For 1.14, we merged docs at 2:30 EST and the blog was approved at 3 EST - marking the release "complete".
```

Tag the commit hash before the [integration branch] as the final commit for [current release].

> > Note: This can be done at any time post release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: This can be done at any time post-release.
```

#### Unfreeze

> Unfreeze the repo as done earlier (remove the `tide/merge-blocker` label and close issue).

Reviewer: You can just close the issue to remove the condition.

⚠️ Create a working branch (Named `dev-[future FUTURE release]`, for example `dev-1.15`) locally, based on master. Push it to upstream.

```shell
# This example is for a future release version 1.15
git clone https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
git checkout -b dev-1.15
git commit --allow-empty -m "Tracking commit for v1.15 docs"
git push -u origin dev-1.15
```

Enable branch protection on the new `dev-` branch, and deprecate the older one; for an example, see: https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/11984

#### Create milestone

Create a milestone for NEW upcoming release. Depending on your permissions, you might need to contact a SIG Docs maintainer. Move anything missed for the current release to the new milestone.

#### Update Netlify

> Update Netlify (contact a SIG Docs [chair](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs#leadership) if you do not have access and they can assist with this):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update Netlify (contact a [SIG Docs Chair or Technical Lead](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#leadership) if you do not have access and they can assist with this):
```
